Name: Dziedzorm Duke Kwame Benson
Contact: ddkbenson@gmail.com

ABOUT APP:

I call this the DukeApp Payroll Management System. This is currently not the finished product. This would be updated as and when necessary.

The app helps to compute employee salary and associated obligatory taxes. The app takes in the ff entries:
Employee ID, TIN Number, SSNIT Number, Employee First & Last Names, Position and Hire Date. It also takes in the Basic Salary and Allowances if any.

The app then computes the Basic and Allowances to Obtain he ff:
Gross Salary, Net Salary, Employer SSNIT Contributions on behalf of employee (Tier 1), Employee Contributions (Tier 2), Pay As You Earn Tax (PAYE) and Pay Cost.

After computation, the entry is saved into a CSV file for later retrieval. The entry can also be printed to a txt file and saved or sent to the employee.

SCOPE:
This current system can compute salaries and tax liabilities, save data, search data, delete data, clear fields and print data. The procedures for each action are shown below.

PROCEDURE:

A. Compute
1. User makes entry for ID to Allowances.
2. Then Click compute to populate the fields from Gross salary to Paycost. 
3. User can then Save, Print or Clear fields

B. Save
1. User desires to save a new entry.
2. User follows steps 1 & 2 in Compute (above)
3. After Computing, click Save.
4. A CSV file is generated in the location of the python file.
5. The data in the fields is saved into the CSV file.

C. Clear
1. This clears all entries within the field.

D. Search
1. Employee ID serves as the Key.
2. Employee ID entered.
3. Click Search.
4. When results are found, it displays into the appropriate fields.
5. When ID not found, it prompts user. (This would be added subsequently).

E. Print
1. User follows steps 1 & 2 in Compute
2. Click Print to print to text file 
3. Text file is saved with the First name of employee.
4. OR 
5. User follows steps 2 & 3 in Search
6. When results found, click Print to print to text file.
7. Text file is saved with the First name of employee.

UPDATES to be MADE
(The order of arrangement isn't signficant)
1. When user clicks save and there's no value in the fields, there should be an error prompt.

2. When user clicks compute and the content in basic and allowance fields are not figures, prompt user to enter figures.

3. When date is not in the format dd/mm/yyyy, prompt user. The Hire date field will be upgraded into a QdateEdit, instead of QlineEdit.

4. When Delete is clicked, user will be asked to confirm deletion.

5. Output file would be changed to a PDF.

6. An SQL variant will be considered for the database instead of CSV. Then for each month, an updated Payroll will be generated.

7. Summary calculations will be done for all the salary and tax fields.

8. A button for update will be included in order to update an existing entry.


Last updated by Duke Benson - 26/12/2020